And in production to the book of Jonah, Jehovah assigned the prophet Jonah to deliver a
warning to the Assyrian city of Nineveh.
Jonah prophesied sometime during the reign of Israel's King Jerobo in the Second.
Jonah wrote the book, bearing his name, about 844 BCE.
This was about 100 years before Assyria took Israel into exile, and some 200 years before
Nehom foretold the destruction of the Assyrian city of Nineveh.
Jonah lived about the time of Amos, who also prophesied in the Northern Kingdom of Israel,
and Joel, who prophesied in Judah.
The book of Jonah has four chapters.
In chapters 1 and 2, we learn of Jonah receiving an assignment from Jehovah to go to Nineveh.
Overwhelmed, Jonah evades the assignment by boarding a ship headed for Tarshish.
Jehovah causes a terrible storm to come up at sea.
Jonah knows that he is responsible for the storm and tells the sailors to throw him overboard.
When they do, the storm abates.
Jehovah sends a huge fish to swallow Jonah.
From inside the fish's belly, Jonah prays to Jehovah, and his prayer is heard.
Jehovah then commands the fish and it vomits Jonah out onto dry land.
Did you know?
Jesus foretold that he would die and be resurrected on the third day.
He called this the sign of Jonah the prophet, alluding to Jonah's deliverance from the huge fish.
Chapter 3 describes how Jonah carries out his assignment.
He preaches the message that Nineveh will soon be overthrown.
To Jonah's surprise, however, the Nineveh's repent, and Jehovah mercifully spares them.
Chapter 4 reveals that instead of rejoicing over the repentance of the Nineveh's,
Jonah becomes angry.
He sets up a shelter outside the city to see what will happen.
Jehovah uses a bottle-gourd plant and a worm to teach Jonah a valuable lesson in loyal love and mercy.
As you read the book of Jonah, note how Jonah accepted correction and fulfilled his assignment.
How Jehovah displayed loyal love and mercy toward the repentant Nineveh's.
And how Jesus used Jonah's experience to fertile his own death and resurrection,
which opens the way to everlasting life under God's kingdom.